 Sure! Here's a brief summary of the page on CSS Grid Layout:
CSS Grid Layout Overview
	• Grid Layout Module: Provides a grid-based layout system with rows and columns.
	• Responsive Design: Simplifies creating complex and responsive web layouts without using float or positioning.
Key Components
	1. Grid Container: The parent element that holds grid items.
	2. Grid Items: The child elements inside the grid container.
Grid Properties
	• display: Defines the element as a grid container (grid or inline-grid).
	• grid-template-rows: Specifies the size and number of rows.
	• grid-template-columns: Specifies the size and number of columns.
	• gap: Sets the space between rows and columns.
	• justify-content: Aligns the grid horizontally within the container.
	• align-content: Aligns the grid vertically within the container.
Examples
	• Basic Grid Layout: Demonstrates a simple grid with multiple items.
	• Responsive Grid: Shows how to create a grid that adapts to different screen sizes.
This page provides a comprehensive guide to using CSS Grid Layout properties to create flexible and responsive web designs.



Sure! Here's a brief summary of the page on CSS Grid Columns, Rows, and Gaps:
CSS Grid Columns, Rows, and Gaps
	• Grid Columns: Vertical lines of grid items.
	• Grid Rows: Horizontal lines of grid items.
	• Grid Gaps: Spaces between columns and rows.
Key Properties
	1. column-gap: Specifies the gap between columns.
		○ Example: column-gap: 50px;
	2. row-gap: Specifies the gap between rows.
		○ Example: row-gap: 50px;
	3. gap: A shorthand for setting both row and column gaps.
		○ Example: gap: 50px 100px;
Grid Lines
	• Column Lines: Lines between columns.
	• Row Lines: Lines between rows.
	• Properties:
		○ grid-column-start: Where to start a grid item.
		○ grid-column-end: Where to end a grid item.
		○ grid-row-start: Where to start a grid item.
		○ grid-row-end: Where to end a grid item.
		○ grid-column: Shorthand for grid-column-start and grid-column-end.
		○ grid-row: Shorthand for grid-row-start and grid-row-end.
This page provides a detailed guide on using CSS Grid properties to control the layout and spacing of grid items.
Place the first grid item at row line 1, and let it end on row line 3:
.item1 {
  grid-row-start: 1;
  grid-row-end: 3;
}
Result:

Example
Place the first grid item at row-line 1, and let it span 2 rows:
.item1 {
  grid-row: 1 / span 2;
}
Result:

Sure! Here's a brief summary of the page on CSS Grid Container:
CSS Grid Container Overview
	• Grid Container: Becomes a grid by setting display: grid or inline-grid.
	• Grid Items: Direct child elements of the grid container.
Key Properties
	1. grid-template-columns: Defines the number and width of columns.
		○ Example: grid-template-columns: auto auto auto auto;
	2. grid-template-rows: Defines the number and height of rows.
		○ Example: grid-template-rows: 80px 200px;
	3. gap: Sets the space between rows and columns.
		○ Example: gap: 50px 100px;
	4. justify-content: Aligns grid items horizontally.
		○ Values: center, start, end, space-between, space-around, space-evenly
	5. align-content: Aligns grid items vertically.
		○ Values: center, start, end, space-between, space-around, space-evenly
Examples
	• Equal Width Columns: grid-template-columns: 1fr 1fr 1fr 1fr;
	• Fractional Units: grid-template-columns: 1fr 2fr 1fr 1fr;
	• Aligning Items: Using justify-content and align-content to position items within the container.
This page provides a detailed guide on using CSS Grid properties to create flexible and responsive layouts.

Notes on CSS Grid Layout
Cell Sizing with the fr Unit
	• fr Unit: Stands for "fraction" and divides available space into fractions.
		○ Example: 1fr takes 1 fraction, 2fr takes 2 fractions.
		○ Equal Columns: css .grid-container { display: grid; grid-template-columns: 1fr 1fr 1fr 1fr; } 
		○ Unequal Columns: css .grid-container { display: grid; grid-template-columns: 1fr 2fr 1fr 1fr; } 
The place-content Property
	• Shorthand Property: Combines align-content and justify-content.
		○ Two Values: css place-content: start center; /* align-content: start, justify-content: center */ 
		○ One Value: css place-content: end; /* both align-content and justify-content: end */ 
	• Effectiveness: Only works if the grid item's total height and width are less than the container's height and width.
Examples of place-content
	• Center Alignment: 
  .grid-container {
    display: grid;
    height: 400px;
    place-content: center;
  }
	• End Space-Between Alignment: 
  .grid-container {
    display: grid;
    height: 400px;
    place-content: end space-between;
  }
These notes cover the key points about using the fr unit for cell sizing and the place-content property for aligning grid items.

Sure! Here's a brief summary of the page on CSS Grid Items:
CSS Grid Items Overview
	• Grid Items: Direct child elements of a grid container that can span multiple columns and/or rows.
Key Properties
	1. grid-column-start and grid-column-end: Define where a grid item starts and ends along the column axis.
		○ Example: css .item1 { grid-column-start: 1; grid-column-end: 3; } 
	2. grid-row-start and grid-row-end: Define where a grid item starts and ends along the row axis.
		○ Example: css .item1 { grid-row-start: 1; grid-row-end: 3; } 
	3. grid-column: Shorthand for grid-column-start and grid-column-end.
		○ Example: css .item1 { grid-column: 1 / span 2; } 
	4. grid-row: Shorthand for grid-row-start and grid-row-end.
		○ Example: css .item1 { grid-row: 1 / span 2; } 
	5. grid-area: Shorthand for grid-row-start, grid-column-start, grid-row-end, and grid-column-end.
		○ Example: css .item4 { grid-area: 1 / 2 / 3 / 2; } 
Naming Grid Items
	• grid-area: Can also be used to assign names to grid items, which can then be referred to by the grid-template-areas property of the grid container.
		○ Example: css .item1 { grid-area: myArea; } .grid-container { grid-template-areas: 'myArea myArea myArea . .'; } 
Aligning Grid Items
	• justify-self: Aligns the content of a grid item along the row axis.
		○ Example: css .item1 { justify-self: right; } 
	• align-self: Aligns the content of a grid item along the column axis.
		○ Example: css .item1 { align-self: start; } 
This page provides a comprehensive guide to using CSS Grid Item properties to control the layout and behavior of items within a grid container.


Example
Name all grid items, and make a ready-to-use webpage template:
.item1 { grid-area: header; }
.item2 { grid-area: menu; }
.item3 { grid-area: main; }
.item4 { grid-area: right; }
.item5 { grid-area: footer; }

.grid-container {
  grid-template-areas:
    'header header header header header header'
    'menu main main main main right'
    'menu footer footer footer footer footer';
}
Result:


The align-self Property
The align-self property is used to align the content of a grid item along the column axis.
Example
.item1 {
  align-self: start;
}

.item6 {
  align-self: center;
}

